# `ConanFile` Attributes

The `ConanFile` class has a lot of different properties that can help consumers search for projects, help the client build packages for different configurations
or are known by ConanCenter's build service and have special meaning.

<!-- toc -->
## Contents

  * [Name attribute](#name-attribute)
  * [Version attribute](#version-attribute)
  * [License Attribute](#license-attribute)
  * [Settings](#settings)
  * [Options](#options)
    * [Recommended Names](#recommended-names)
    * [Known Options](#known-options)
    * [Disallowed Options](#disallowed-options)<!-- endToc -->

## Name attribute

Same as the _recipe folder_ and always lowercase.

Please see the FAQs for:

- [name collisions](../faqs.md#what-is-the-policy-on-recipe-name-collisions)
- [space and symbols](../faqs.md#should-reference-names-use---or-_)

## Version attribute

ConanCenter is geared towards quickly added new release, the build service always pass the version it it currently building to the recipe.
The `version` attribute MUST NOT be added to any recipe - with except to "system packages".

## License Attribute

The mandatory license attribute of each recipe **should** be a [SPDX license](https://spdx.org/licenses/) [short Identifiers](https://spdx.dev/ids/) when applicable.

Where the SPDX guidelines do not apply, packages should do the following:

- When no license is provided or when it's given to the "public domain", the value should be set to [Unlicense](https://spdx.org/licenses/Unlicense)
  as per [KB-H056](error_knowledge_base.md#kb-h056-license-public-domain) and [FAQs](../faqs.md#what-license-should-i-use-for-public-domain).
- When a custom (e.g. project specific) license is given, the value should be set to `LicenseRef-` as a prefix, followed by the name of the file
  which contains a custom license. See [this example](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/e604534bbe0ef56bdb1f8513b83404eff02aebc8/recipes/fft/all/conanfile.py#L8). For more details, [read this conversation](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pull/4928/files#r596216206) and our [FAQs](../faqs.md#what-license-should-i-use-for-a-custom-project-specific-license)

## Settings

All recipes should list the four settings `os`, `arch`, `compiler` and `build_type` so Conan will compute a different package ID
for each combination. There are some particular cases for this general rule:

* **Recipes for _header only_ libraries** might omit the `settings` attribute, but in any case they should add

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      self.info.header_only()
   ```

* **Recipes that provide applications** (`b2`, `cmake`, `make`,...) that are generally used as a _build requires_, must list all
   the settings as well, but they should remove the `compiler` one in the corresponding method unless the recipe provides also
   libraries that are consumed by other packages:

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      del self.info.settings.compiler
   ```

   Removing the `compiler` setting reduces the number of configurations generated by the CI, reducing the time and workload and, at the
   same time, demonstrates the power of Conan behind the package ID logic.

   > **Note** Intentionally, the `build_type` setting should not be removed from the package ID in this case. Preserving this
   > setting will ensure that the package ID for Debug and Release configurations will be different and both binaries can be
   > available in the Conan cache at the same time. This enable consumers to switch from one configuration to the other in the case
   > they want to run or to debug those executables.

## Options

Recipes can list any number of options with any meaning, and defaults are up to the recipe itself. The CI cannot enforce anything
in this direction.

### Recommended Names

It's often needed to add options to toggle specific library features on/off. Regardless of the default, there is a strong preference for using positive naming for options. In order to avoid the fragmentation, we recommend to use the following naming conventions for such options:

- enable_<feature> / disable_<feature>
- with_<dependency> / without_<dependency>
- use_<feature>

the actual recipe code then may look like:

```py
    options = {"use_tzdb": [True, False]}
    default_options = {"use_tzdb": True}
```

```py
    options = {"enable_locales": [True, False]}
    default_options = {"enable_locales": True}
```

```py
    options = {"with_zlib": [True, False]}
    default_options = {"with_zlib": True}
```

having the same naming conventions for the options may help consumers, e.g. they will be able to specify options with wildcards: `-o *:with_threads=True`, therefore, `with_threads` options will be enabled for all packages in the graph that support it.

### Known Options

However, there are a couple of options that have a special meaning for the CI:

* `fPIC` (with values `True` or `False`). Default should be `True`.

* `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). Default should be `False`. The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. If it is found, it will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

   > **Note** The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will use their defaults
   > (typically `shared=False`). It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.

* `header_only` (with values `True` or `False`). Default should be `False`. If the CI detects this option, it will generate all the configurations for the
   value `header_only=False` and add one more configuration with `header_only=True`. **Only one
   package** will be generated for `header_only=True`, so it is crucial that the package is actually a _header only_ library, with header files only (no libraries or executables inside).

   Recipes with such option should include the following in their `package_id` method

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      if self.options.header_only:
         self.info.header_only()
   ```

   ensuring that, when the option is active, the recipe ignores all the settings and only one package ID is generated.

### Disallowed Options

* `build_testing` should not be added, nor any other related unit test option. Options affect the package ID, therefore, testing should not be part of that.
   Instead, use Conan config [skip_test](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/config_files/global_conf.html#tools-configurations) feature:

   ```python
   def _configure_cmake(self):
      cmake = CMake(self)
      cmake.definitions['BUILD_TESTING'] = not self.conf.get("tools.build:skip_test", default=true, check_type=bool)
   ```

   The `skip_test` configuration is supported by [CMake](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers/cmake.html#test) and [Meson](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers/meson.html#test).
